# li_hw1

Using data from 4000+ past Kickstarter projects, I have attempted to analyze hidden market trends using Excel. These data show the specific campaign's goal, pledged amount, and state (whether it was successful, failed, canceled, or live), the dates which it ran from, and the categories they belong in. 

Using the parent categories of projects, I have created a pivot table and chart to look for trends. According to the stacked column pivot chart, the category with the most successful projects happen to be in theater, then music, and then film & video. (Theater projects have a 60% success rate, music with 77%, and film & video with 58%.) These three categories are all performing arts. 

After analyzing the pivot chart for sub categories of projects, the bar for plays is abnormally high. This also shows that a lot of projects center around performing arts and the success rate is approximately 65%. Organizations/individuals with projects for plays might occur more often because there might be a good return rate for backers, such as tickets to the shows if the play gets enough funding to be performed. 

For the most part, campaigns with lower goals (amount-wise) tend to have more success. The line for goal vs. percent success have an downward sloping line. The campaigns with the highest failure rate and highest cancellation rate tend to be for campaigns with higher goals, hence the upward sloping line. Generally speaking, with higher goals, it's takes more money and/or backers to complete the project, so therefore, it's more difficult to achieve. 

We do not have data on the average income levels of backers for certain projects. Individuals with higher disposable income will be able to donate more money to projects compared to individuals that may be living paycheck to paycheck. These individuals might have different interests and beliefs compared to others. For example, the categories with the highest success rates tend to be in the performing arts categories. Performing arts are considered leisure activities and people with limited income will not be able to partake in them. 

Since Kickstarter is solely online based, individuals who do not go online regularly would not know of these campaigns. Hence, certain groups of individuals will not be able to support projects that may be of interest. 

These projects also do not include data on the founders of these campaigns, which may affect the outcome of it also. For example, people with a huge online presence such as YouTubers will be able to get more backers due to the fact that their project is more widely advertised. 

Some other possible tables that we could have created would be listing the percentages of successful, failed, canceled, and live projects per category since we don't have equal amounts of projects for each parent category. That way, we can examine closely whether projects in a certain category are more likely to be successful or not. We can also create another pivot table and chart displaying the amount of time each campaign ran for and chart time vs. success rate. Through this, we can determine whether or not the campaigns will have a higher success rate if it was ran for a longer period of time. 